We spoke about how we have two verbs for to be in Spanish, estar and ser, and we practiced with estar, which is the verb that we use for states
And we said that the word state is related to a star.
Actually it's it's like the same word.
What looks most different there between state and a star is that
that you get at the beginning of S star.
But you will find this actually with words that star ST, SP, S and consonant
You can't begin a word like this in Spanish where you can in English.
So actually you will find many words between English and Spanish that get like an extra E at the beginning in Spanish.
For example, the word Spanish.
In Spanish is Espanol, or Spain, which is Espana, Student, Estudiante
School Esquella there you have the or splitting of school to UE Esquella Special Especial Special
Espacial.
Good.
Strict?
How do you think you might say strict if it's the same word in English and Spanish?
Estricto Estricto Good Spectacula it's the same word as well Espectacular Good espectacular
So this is the difference that we see between state and a star.
So we said that a star we use with what we will consider states
of being.
Now with what we consider characteristics of being, we will use ser.
And we said that ser all by itself means being.
Un ser is a being.
Un ser humano is a human being.
Here, humano is acting like an adjective.
So it's coming afterwards.
But it could also be a noun.
We can say the human.
How would that be?
The human.
El humano.
And there it's a noun.
But el ser humano, there it's an adjective.
So I am from ser is soy.
Soy.
So like a stoy from a estar, it ends OY.
There are just four verbs in the whole Spanish language that use OY instead of O for I.
BOI.
doi from dar to give doy I'm giving and then let's do en soy so we said that student is estudiante so if you wanted to say I am a student
Soy estudiante.
Good.
It is or she is, he is, you are to usted.
We learned it already, but we didn't learn that it was from ser.
How would you say it is possible?
Es possible.
Good, so we have S.
S is from ser
Now ser is more irregular than a star.
It doesn't look like s is from ser, not too much.
And then we had they are or you guys are, what was that?
Son.
Good.
So we've got three of the versions now.
Soy, son, and s
We can take son and we can work out the Wii form from son working backwards.
Now we said that working backwards means taking off the consonant that you know
associates today than putting on the ending that associates to we for example.
So to go from son they are to we are how do you think it will sound
Somos.
Good.
Which leaves one left, which is the U informal, which is Eres.
It is.
E-R-E-S.
So, let's make a recap.
To be?
Sir.
I am
Soy.
And if you want to use the word for I.
Yo soy.
He is
S.
Good.
And if you want to use the word for he?
L S.
Good.
And she is?
Ella S.
They are
Son.
Son?
And what if you wanted to use the word for they?
A nice way to remember they as well is you can make she plural and you will get the feminine they.
Ellas.
So they are?
Ellos son.
Good.
Ellos son, ellos son.
You guys are.
What is you formal?
Usted.
Good.
And you guys is the plural of that.
Ustedes.
So it's the plural of usted, but it's not necessarily formal.
Only in some parts of Spain, which we will talk about later.
But everywhere else in the Spanish speaking world, this is just how you refer to you guys.
It doesn't sound formal anymore when it becomes plural.
So how would you say you guys are?
Ustedes son.
Good.
And then we have we are.
Somos or nosotros somos.
Or if we were an all-female group.
Nosotras somos.
Good.
And then we have the U informal, which is eres.
Which is probably the weirdest form out of these ones.
We can relate it to S, maybe they are similar.
S, S.
So how would you say you are using the word for you?
Tu eres.
Good.
What was the word for how?
Como.
Now if I want to say how is he, how is he doing, I will use a star.
So how would I say using a star, how is he, how is he doing?
Como está?
Good.
Now if I want to ask you what is he like
Maybe you tell me about your new boss or a new friend and I ask you what is he like or what is she like?
Am I referring to their state or to their characteristic?
Characteristic.
So how would I ask how is he what is he like?
How is she what is she like?
Como es.
Good.